# Math 290 Homework #9
## Peter Antonaros

### Exercise 1

To plot the data with Power Bi, I first had to choose 'get more visuals' so that I could use the histogram charts. At this point, I could no longer get access to Power Bi as it kept saying my email (cuny email) was not registered, and the popup refused to let me do anything.

The process would have been to choose the value field 'averagerating' from title_ratings table and plot it. Then you can make it look nice and customize it how you want. I just used Python instead and connected to local host.

To connect to localhost on my machine, I first needed to edit the pg_ident.conf file and link my linux user to my postgres user. Then I went and edited pg_hba.conf and set the authentication method for this linked user to 'trust'. After that my jupyter notebook was able to establish a connection the the local imdb database.

In the .ipynb file you will find the frequency plot and shapiro wilk test. From the tests we cannot say whether or not the data is normally distributed. Having worked with ratings before, in expectation we say that this would be something that is normally distributed, but once realized is often times not.


For (n, min, max, mean, variance), I used

    select count("averagerating") as samp_size from xf_title_ratings xtr
    select min(xtr."averagerating") as minium from xf_title_ratings xtr
    select max(xtr."averagerating") as maximum from xf_title_ratings xtr
    select avg(xtr."averagerating") as mean from xf_title_ratings xtr
    select variance(xtr."averagerating") as var from xf_title_ratings xtr


For skewness, I used

    with skewness as (
    select
        avg(xtr."averagerating") as mean_val,
        percentile_cont(0.5) within group(
            order by xtr."averagerating"
        ) as median_val,
        stddev(xtr."averagerating") as std_deviation
            from xf_title_ratings xtr
        )
    select round(3*(mean_val - median_val)::numeric / std_deviation, 4) as skewness
        from skewness

### Exercise 2
This statement has duplicates in the output. I couldn't get this to work properly. In returns the correct values if we ignore duplciate names/roles.

    select "title", "primaryname", "category", "characters_"
        from  xf_title_principals xtp
    left join xf_name_basics xnb
        on xtp."nconst" = xnb."nconst"
    left join xf_title_akas xta
        on xtp."tconst" = xta."titleid"
    where "title" = 'Lord of War' and (category = 'actor' or category = 'actress')

### Exercise 3
Here I am selecting the average rating of movies that are under the genre comedy and have the type short. I assume this is what a 'Comedy Short' means. Eliezer Shragie Friedler helped me here, noting that I have to use the contain oeprator '@>' rather than '=' since movies can have multiple genres! Thank you Eliezer!

    select xtb."primarytitle", xtr."averagerating"
        from xf_title_basic xtb
    full outer join xf_title_ratings xtr
        on xtb."tconst" = xtr."tconst"
    where xtb."genres" @> '{Comedy}' and xtb."titletype" = 'short'
        and xtr."averagerating" is not null
        and xtb."startyear" between 2000 and 2010
    order by xtr."averagerating" desc


### Exercise 4
Here we see that first we select the number of votes as an average. In order to get the window we would like, we can break up the range with case statements. This yeilds the average number of votes per case statement. I include the 'else >=5' at the end so that in our table we don't see NULL for values that adhere to this.

    select avg(xtr."numvotes"), case
        when xtr."averagerating" >=1 and xtr."averagerating" < 2
            then '1-2'
        when xtr."averagerating" >=2 and xtr."averagerating" < 3
            then '2-3'
        when xtr."averagerating" >=3 and xtr."averagerating" < 4
            then '3-4'
        when xtr."averagerating" >=4 and xtr."averagerating" < 5
            then '4-5'
        else '>=5'
    end as avg_rating_window
    from xf_title_ratings xtr
    group by avg_rating_window
